What Is The Jaltarang - A Water Acoustic Instrument: 
The jaltarang is a unique percussion instrument with a set of ceramic or metal bowls arranged in a semicircle from largest to smallest. The instrumentalist strikes the bowls with wooden sticks to produce musical notes. Each bowl is filled with a certain amount of water, that helps determine the pitch of the bowls, and is used to tune the bowls to a specific scale.  The instrument produces musical notes because when a bowl is struck, it vibrates with its natural frequency. The amount of water in the bowl affects the natural frequency of the bowl, which in turn affects the pitch of the sound. For example, if we add more water to a bowl, the pitch gets lower because higher water levels means that there is less air in the bowl for the sound waves to travel through, resulting in slower wave travel. If the sound waves travel at a slower pace, that means that they have a lower frequency which is perceived as a lower pitch.

Problem Statement: 
The problem with the physical jaltarang instrument is that it is very difficult to set up as it is hard to find the right individual bowls to create the set. Even after you create the set, it can be challenging to get the instrument tuned correctly unless you have perfect pitch or another instrument to tune it to which takes a long time. Once the set is created it is hard to transport it to different places in order to practice and perform your music. This led me to create a digital version of Jaltarang as none existed to help me practice and experiment with the instrument easily. At the same time, this would also allow all other enthusiasts to get access and experience with such a rare instrument. 

Solution - Digitizing Jaltarang:
The Digital Jaltarang has bowls placed in a semicircle, where different bowls correspond to different pitches, each with original jaltarang sound. Whenever a bowl is clicked, the corresponding pitch in the scale will be played. The program will also display the frequency of the sound waves being produced by the bowl along with a model sound wave representation. It also simulates the addition and removal of water to different bowls by pressing different keys on the keyboard. It will also play an example song when you press the up-arrow key and simulate emptying the water in all the bowls when you press the space key.
